---
layout: post
title:      "Why Everyone Should Learn to Code *(introduced at minimum)*"
date:       2020-04-25 21:30:41 +0000
permalink:  why_everyone_should_learn_to_code_introduced_at_minimum
---

       Today, nearly every aspect of your life can be found within a program. Molded with logic and instructed by code in one or more of a variety of languages, these programs are ubiquitous. From the way we interact socially, to the essential services we depend on, to our very participation in government. Software has been an unprecedented tool in humankind’s development. The advantages obvious, the disadvantages just as obvious, but like everything in life a vast majority is grey. 
      Possibly it has been the course that I have taken in life that the enormity of it all doesn’t easily escape me. A formative part of youth was spent in Silicon Valley and I was surrounded by the companies and technologies that everyone uses today. In those days, it truly wasn’t that long ago, the foot print of technology was relatively small. The personal computer was of course around, not that old, but most still used pagers and they connected to the world wide web via dial-up. Jump forward to University, the foot print made by technology was growing and the shadow cast by its predictive growth, impressive. The voice an online presence could give an individual, an organization, an idea was louder then anyone could really wrap their heads around. I was intrigued, but consistent with my tendencies a more powerful idea at the moment drove me in another direction and for the time being everything else would have to wait. 
      The next 15 years, more or less, were spent in Alaska. Digital communications like cell signals were sparse to non existent outside of the 3 major communities and for years I lived a life more reminiscent of the early pioneers. In fact even indoor plumbing was a luxury I did without, except at work, or on my forays traveling. I didn’t of course live in a bubble and my knowledge of all things technology was up to date. More pointedly I voraciously devoured information on new technologies and advances in the sciences. To be honest, as it should be fairly obvious at this point, this was all at arms length. Of course though,  I was being smoothly integrated into the digital world like everyone else, but it was without my real participation and for a lot of it, consent. Government database’s , banking institutions and a slew of other companies  were connecting, collecting, integrating, streamlining services and products to make life smarter, easier and to extent we experience social interactions much more participatory. Slowly, I made my way back into everyday civilization and began to actively participate.
     Possibly the frog and the boiling water analogy is most appropriate here. If you place a frog in warm water and slowly raise it to a boil it will remain still and boil itself, whereas, place a frog in boiling water and it jumps right out. My reintroduction to full force technology, which was no longer at arms length, was disquieting. Nearly the entirety of our lives was encapsulated in a digital environment. This digital environment offered so many more innovative solutions, and fostered the creation of many ideas then it had before, access was easy. I myself began playing with micro-controllers, wildlife camera traps and connecting them with phone apps and databases. To say it snowballed from those first days after the reintroduction would be an understatement. I’ll get the point. I saw (a glimpse) of how the sausage is made, a quick look under the hood as I began exploring about.
      Looking around I began to see that few were fully aware of the enormity of this digital world or maybe they did, but its influence seemed to be mysterious. I believe to have a democratic, fully participatory government and informed citizenry individuals need the tools to unlock the mechanisms that underly it. Its important that those who use an ATM kind of know how this machine knows their PIN number and how others could possibly “know” their PIN number. Everyone should have a basic understanding of big data, how its collected, how its used and the power it holds, for good and not so good. Coding needs to taught like the idea of, not necessarily the way, Home EC (home economics)  is or was taught in public schools. Without doing so, too many will be left behind, too many will be preyed upon, too many will not have the access to implement their success and ultimately all our success. Democracy and the rights and freedoms it endows are slowly being eroded , maybe not that slowly,  and far too many left vulnerable. In order for us all to experience the enormous benefits of this digital age we all need to communicate in its language, even if thats just grunts and moans for now. I decided to embark on this journey for all the reasons stated above, to be an architect in our success.
